>> James: Now we can get a bit more
into like how your system works, and
a few different environment variables
that it's really good to know about.
So, this whole time we've been doing
things like learning commands,
but it's important to know kind of
where these commands even live.
These are all individual programs,
but where are they?
So If you do echo $PATH,
all caps, you can see.
>> James: So $PATH is a list
of colon separated file paths.
So the default ones are places
like usr/local/bin, and
user/bin, and /bin and
/sbin, and that kinda stuff.
Different systems are gonna be
configured different ways, but
there are a few places where you can
reliably expect they'll be in the path.
If you want to make your own systems,
if you were gonna make your own scripts
that were available system-wide,
probably the best place to put
them would be in usr/local/bin.
I'll check and
show you what mine looks like.
So if you ls usr/local/bin, here,
I've already got a lot of
little scripts in there.
The operating system generally
doesn't touch /usr/local/bin.
So it's safe to put your own stuff in
there, and you don't have to worry about
your package manager or something,
going in and moving things around,
because it will generally use places
like user/bin or /bin to do that.
So here, I've got some files,
all of these files now.
Any of these programs, so
long as they have the executable bit set,
which you can do a chmod +x.
And we'll talk more about
permissions in a little bit.
Any one of these is now
available in my path, so
I don't have to type usr/local/bin/ipfs,
for example, to use the ipfs program.
I can just type ipfs.
This is also true for our logger example,
if I just go back in and
put back the original one.
>> James: If I wanted to install this
system-wide, what I can do now it's sudo,
because /usr/local/bin/
is a system-wide path.
So I can copy my logger
into /usr/local/bin/,
and I can give it a name,
and whatever name I give it
will be the command name that it's
gonna show up as in my terminal.
So I could call it loggy maybe for,
I don't know.
Now, I have a command.
A new command called loggy and,
>> James: I
can see my message in the script.
>> James: So it's quite common to,
like I showed a bit with the MPM config,
to have things like your path
set up in your bashrc file.
So I can just share what mine is like.
So here's my path.
Each of the pieces which is split by a
colon are the places where Bashful looks.
So it starts at the first one,
then it goes to the next, and the next,
and the next.
And the first one that it
finds that has the same name
whenever you type a command into
the command line, it'll use.
So, it first searches my own prefix path
which is in my home directory, right here.
And if it doesn't find anything there,
then it goes to the other locations.
>> James: Right, so.
bashrc file, if you haven't
noticed is also a shell script.
So you can put whatever commands
that you want into here, and
they'll be run every time
you open a new terminal.
For example, a fun thing to test is
if you go to the end of your bashrc,
or anywhere really in it, and
you put a message like echo HELLO WORLD.
Now, the next time you open a new
terminal, I see the message HELLO WORLD.
Now, anytime that I log in or open a new
terminal, I'm gonna have that command run.
So, you can put whatever you want inside
of there, whatever kinds of stuff,
whatever kinds of environment variables,
whatever kinds of set up.
You could print a cool comic.
There's a program you
can get called cowsa.
I don't have it on here, but
it just says a message with a cow.
It's pretty cool.
I recommend you install it.
There we go, there's a cow.
You could put that in your bashrc,
whatever you want.